{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\b\f0\fs52\lang8192 HOW IoT HELPS THE FIGHT AGAINST BIODIVERSITY LOSS \par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\fs32 Utilizing Real-time Data to Stop Deforestation, particularly on endangered species\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs24 Sensors are attached to trees and especially endangered species to allow for monitoring. These sensors detect illegal logging by sensing certain sounds that are associated with illegal logging such as a chainsaw or a large vehicle in an unauthorized area. These sensors are therefore unable to stop illegal logging activities in real-time.\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs32 Tagging Animals to Stop Poaching\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs24 Tiny sensors attached conveniently to animals help researchers and environmentalists with geo-mapping animal movements. It also allows them to identify potential threats that cause disruptions to mobility patterns and dispatch teams to investigate the commotion. \par
Project Real-time Anti-Poaching Device (RAPID) is used to equip rhinos with connected devices: a camera, heart rate monitor and GPS tracker, which help alert wildlife preservationists when the animals are in distress, are able to track the animals\rquote  movements and gives them access to video footages of poachers.\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs32 Internet of Bees\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs24 IoT is used to track bee populations and monitor the condition of hives. Here, battery-powered sensors are placed inside hives, where they are used to monitor conditions inside the hives and also track the health of the colonies.In some countries, e.g. Australia, tiny sensors are attached on thousands of bees, where they work in a similar way to a vehicle\rquote s e-tag. Here, the sensors record when the bees pass a particular checkpoint. This has allowed researchers and bee-keepers to identify issues that affect behaviour of bees and deal with those issues before they affect the productivity of bees, and in turn, productivity of plants.\par
\par
\ul\b\fs52 IMPACT OF IoT IN THE TRANSPORT INDUSTRY:\par
\ulnone\i\fs24 IoT will provide connectivity, security, analytics and monetization that enable more intelligent transport. Although the Internet of Things might be disruptive to the industry, it is a long-term technological advancement for transportation and supply chain \endash  businesses will become more agile, find profits from deeper analysis, provide customers with better experiences and deliver goods more safely. \par
\par
The Internet of Things has made its presence felt in almost every industry and transportation is no exception. IoT in transportation can help us track vehicles and people, connect infrastructure and make transport work better. The Internet, along with mobile applications, increased communication and technology such as data collection, cell-phone triangulation, machine-to-machine communication, cloud computing, etc., the potential to revolutionize transportation is high.\par
Let us look at some ways IoT can change transportation:\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\i0 Cars will be Connected\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0 Imagine if you could make changes to your car just like your smartphone, by changing its exterior or interior appearance at will or you could just sit relaxed in the car while it takes you to your destination on its own. Sounds like a dream? Well, it\rquote s not. The Internet of Things will make all that possible in the near future. We already have connected systems that allow the drivers to connect their smartphones and use various apps, navigate the roads, listen to satellite radio, request roadside assistance, find open parking spaces, remotely lock/unlock the doors and view streaming videos. IoT will also make driverless and autonomous cars possible, where the passengers can socialize, relax or even work in the car without driving it. Autonomous cars can reduce road accidents and lower energy consumption.\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Automobiles as Sensors\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0 Sensors have been implemented in automobiles, which enable them to achieve several tasks. Some sense acceleration and braking of the automobile which helps in conserving fuel and reducing maintenance costs, some sensors along with mobile apps help in diagnosing the engine problems and display travel logs. However, since sensors are becoming quite affordable and are capable of achieving bigger tasks, there will come a time when automobiles will become sensors themselves. They can help you in identifying empty spaces in a parking lot, give important alerts, etc. Automobiles as sensors would be able to gather data and make accurate predictions for weather. By connecting all the sensors on automobiles to IoT, vehicles can communicate with each other, collect data off each other and store it in the cloud infrastructure, which can further be used and analyzed by businesses.\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Infrastructure will be Connected\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0 IoT will allow one to create connections amongst different vehicles, and between the vehicle and transportation infrastructure. Connected infrastructure will bring in several benefits. If there is heavy traffic or an accident on a route, you will be notified of the same. You will also be notified if an emergency vehicle such as an ambulance is on the way so that vehicles can get out of the way to enable it to reach the accident site as quickly as possible. By connecting transportation infrastructure, IoT can create a coordinated system which can map how people can get to their destinations safely and on time. In the case of an accident, the sensors on the vehicle will send an alert to nearby vehicles, allowing them to take an alternate route. One of the benefits you enjoy now because of IoT is through Google Maps which shows the severity of traffic on any route through colors. IoT will bring in more benefits in the future for transportation. According to Morgan Stanley, IoT in transportation could save approximately 30,000 lives and avoid 2.12 million injuries each year. Below are some of the \ul\b advantages\ulnone\b0  that will follow with the rise of IoT in the transport industry:\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Increased efficiency:  IoT will address maintenance issues in real-time \endash  permitting drivers to fix the problem before major productivity or asset loss is incurred.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Saving  money: The future of connected technology will help companies save money on shipping by enabling drivers to access information about weather conditions, rest stops and parking lots. Plus, analysts can predict fuel consumption based on driving distance and road conditions in order to find better lanes and modes.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Advance in safety and green initiatives: IoT technology will enhance trucking\rquote s green initiatives \endash  improving energy efficiency through movement sensors.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Monitoring of products: Operational processes will be affected too; tracking all aspects from inventory levels, fulfillment time and labor schedules so they can be connected for superior planning and decision making. The future of interconnected devices and machines will enable us to access and analyze more data than ever before \endash  information that\rquote s never been available to businesses. Tracking meaningful intelligence and applying analytics will tell a deeper story about operations; should you reduce time-to-market? Is there demand for this product? Can the inbound schedule be changed?\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Improved customer experience:  Customers will have better experiences since delivery of goods will be safer and in better condition, faster too.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Reducing accidents: Due to technology, traffic control can be improved, hence less accidents will occur, improving safety on the streets.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f1\lang1033\par
}
 